9.2.1.  Safe Methods

   Request methods are considered "safe" if their defined semantics are
   essentially read-only; i.e., the client does not request, and does
   not expect, any state change on the origin server as a result of
   applying a safe method to a target resource.  Likewise, reasonable
   use of a safe method is not expected to cause any harm, loss of
   property, or unusual burden on the origin server.

   This definition of safe methods does not prevent an implementation
   from including behavior that is potentially harmful, that is not
   entirely read-only, or that causes side effects while invoking a safe
   method.  What is important, however, is that the client did not
   request that additional behavior and cannot be held accountable for
   it.  For example, most servers append request information to access
   log files at the completion of every response, regardless of the
   method, and that is considered safe even though the log storage might
   become full and cause the server to fail.  Likewise, a safe request
   initiated by selecting an advertisement on the Web will often have
   the side effect of charging an advertising account.

   Of the request methods defined by this specification, the GET, HEAD,
   OPTIONS, and TRACE methods are defined to be safe.

   The purpose of distinguishing between safe and unsafe methods is to
   allow automated retrieval processes (spiders) and cache performance
   optimization (pre-fetching) to work without fear of causing harm.  In
   addition, it allows a user agent to apply appropriate constraints on
   the automated use of unsafe methods when processing potentially
   untrusted content.

   A user agent SHOULD distinguish between safe and unsafe methods when
   presenting potential actions to a user, such that the user can be
   made aware of an unsafe action before it is requested.

   When a resource is constructed such that parameters within the target
   URI have the effect of selecting an action, it is the resource
   owner's responsibility to ensure that the action is consistent with
   the request method semantics.  For example, it is common for Web-
   based content editing software to use actions within query
   parameters, such as "page?do=delete".  If the purpose of such a
   resource is to perform an unsafe action, then the resource owner MUST
   disable or disallow that action when it is accessed using a safe
   request method.  Failure to do so will result in unfortunate side
   effects when automated processes perform a GET on every URI reference
   for the sake of link maintenance, pre-fetching, building a search
   index, etc.

9.2.2.  Idempotent Methods

   A request method is considered "idempotent" if the intended effect on
   the server of multiple identical requests with that method is the
   same as the effect for a single such request.  Of the request methods
   defined by this specification, PUT, DELETE, and safe request methods
   are idempotent.

   Like the definition of safe, the idempotent property only applies to
   what has been requested by the user; a server is free to log each
   request separately, retain a revision control history, or implement
   other non-idempotent side effects for each idempotent request.

   Idempotent methods are distinguished because the request can be
   repeated automatically if a communication failure occurs before the
   client is able to read the server's response.  For example, if a
   client sends a PUT request and the underlying connection is closed
   before any response is received, then the client can establish a new
   connection and retry the idempotent request.  It knows that repeating
   the request will have the same intended effect, even if the original
   request succeeded, though the response might differ.

   A client SHOULD NOT automatically retry a request with a non-
   idempotent method unless it has some means to know that the request
   semantics are actually idempotent, regardless of the method, or some
   means to detect that the original request was never applied.

   For example, a user agent can repeat a POST request automatically if
   it knows (through design or configuration) that the request is safe
   for that resource.  Likewise, a user agent designed specifically to
   operate on a version control repository might be able to recover from
   partial failure conditions by checking the target resource
   revision(s) after a failed connection, reverting or fixing any
   changes that were partially applied, and then automatically retrying
   the requests that failed.

   Some clients take a riskier approach and attempt to guess when an
   automatic retry is possible.  For example, a client might
   automatically retry a POST request if the underlying transport
   connection closed before any part of a response is received,
   particularly if an idle persistent connection was used.

   A proxy MUST NOT automatically retry non-idempotent requests.  A
   client SHOULD NOT automatically retry a failed automatic retry.

9.2.3.  Methods and Caching

   For a cache to store and use a response, the associated method needs
   to explicitly allow caching and to detail under what conditions a
   response can be used to satisfy subsequent requests; a method
   definition that does not do so cannot be cached.  For additional
   requirements see [CACHING].

   This specification defines caching semantics for GET, HEAD, and POST,
   although the overwhelming majority of cache implementations only
   support GET and HEAD.

9.3.  Method Definitions

9.3.1.  GET

   The GET method requests transfer of a current selected representation
   for the target resource.  A successful response reflects the quality
   of "sameness" identified by the target URI (Section 1.2.2 of [URI]).
   Hence, retrieving identifiable information via HTTP is usually
   performed by making a GET request on an identifier associated with
   the potential for providing that information in a 200 (OK) response.

   GET is the primary mechanism of information retrieval and the focus
   of almost all performance optimizations.  Applications that produce a
   URI for each important resource can benefit from those optimizations
   while enabling their reuse by other applications, creating a network
   effect that promotes further expansion of the Web.

   It is tempting to think of resource identifiers as remote file system
   pathnames and of representations as being a copy of the contents of
   such files.  In fact, that is how many resources are implemented (see
   Section 17.3 for related security considerations).  However, there
   are no such limitations in practice.

   The HTTP interface for a resource is just as likely to be implemented
   as a tree of content objects, a programmatic view on various database
   records, or a gateway to other information systems.  Even when the
   URI mapping mechanism is tied to a file system, an origin server
   might be configured to execute the files with the request as input
   and send the output as the representation rather than transfer the
   files directly.  Regardless, only the origin server needs to know how
   each resource identifier corresponds to an implementation and how
   that implementation manages to select and send a current
   representation of the target resource.

   A client can alter the semantics of GET to be a "range request",
   requesting transfer of only some part(s) of the selected
   representation, by sending a Range header field in the request
   (Section 14.2).

   Although request message framing is independent of the method used,
   content received in a GET request has no generally defined semantics,
   cannot alter the meaning or target of the request, and might lead
   some implementations to reject the request and close the connection
   because of its potential as a request smuggling attack (Section 11.2
   of [HTTP/1.1]).  A client SHOULD NOT generate content in a GET
   request unless it is made directly to an origin server that has
   previously indicated, in or out of band, that such a request has a
   purpose and will be adequately supported.  An origin server SHOULD
   NOT rely on private agreements to receive content, since participants
   in HTTP communication are often unaware of intermediaries along the
   request chain.

   The response to a GET request is cacheable; a cache MAY use it to
   satisfy subsequent GET and HEAD requests unless otherwise indicated
   by the Cache-Control header field (Section 5.2 of [CACHING]).

   When information retrieval is performed with a mechanism that
   constructs a target URI from user-provided information, such as the
   query fields of a form using GET, potentially sensitive data might be
   provided that would not be appropriate for disclosure within a URI
   (see Section 17.9).  In some cases, the data can be filtered or
   transformed such that it would not reveal such information.  In
   others, particularly when there is no benefit from caching a
   response, using the POST method (Section 9.3.3) instead of GET can
   transmit such information in the request content rather than within
   the target URI.

9.3.2.  HEAD

   The HEAD method is identical to GET except that the server MUST NOT
   send content in the response.  HEAD is used to obtain metadata about
   the selected representation without transferring its representation
   data, often for the sake of testing hypertext links or finding recent
   modifications.

   The server SHOULD send the same header fields in response to a HEAD
   request as it would have sent if the request method had been GET.
   However, a server MAY omit header fields for which a value is
   determined only while generating the content.  For example, some
   servers buffer a dynamic response to GET until a minimum amount of
   data is generated so that they can more efficiently delimit small
   responses or make late decisions with regard to content selection.
   Such a response to GET might contain Content-Length and Vary fields,
   for example, that are not generated within a HEAD response.  These
   minor inconsistencies are considered preferable to generating and
   discarding the content for a HEAD request, since HEAD is usually
   requested for the sake of efficiency.

   Although request message framing is independent of the method used,
   content received in a HEAD request has no generally defined
   semantics, cannot alter the meaning or target of the request, and
   might lead some implementations to reject the request and close the
   connection because of its potential as a request smuggling attack
   (Section 11.2 of [HTTP/1.1]).  A client SHOULD NOT generate content
   in a HEAD request unless it is made directly to an origin server that
   has previously indicated, in or out of band, that such a request has
   a purpose and will be adequately supported.  An origin server SHOULD
   NOT rely on private agreements to receive content, since participants
   in HTTP communication are often unaware of intermediaries along the
   request chain.

   The response to a HEAD request is cacheable; a cache MAY use it to
   satisfy subsequent HEAD requests unless otherwise indicated by the
   Cache-Control header field (Section 5.2 of [CACHING]).  A HEAD
   response might also affect previously cached responses to GET; see
   Section 4.3.5 of [CACHING].

9.3.3.  POST

   The POST method requests that the target resource process the
   representation enclosed in the request according to the resource's
   own specific semantics.  For example, POST is used for the following
   functions (among others):

   *  Providing a block of data, such as the fields entered into an HTML
      form, to a data-handling process;

   *  Posting a message to a bulletin board, newsgroup, mailing list,
      blog, or similar group of articles;

   *  Creating a new resource that has yet to be identified by the
      origin server; and

   *  Appending data to a resource's existing representation(s).

   An origin server indicates response semantics by choosing an
   appropriate status code depending on the result of processing the
   POST request; almost all of the status codes defined by this
   specification could be received in a response to POST (the exceptions
   being 206 (Partial Content), 304 (Not Modified), and 416 (Range Not
   Satisfiable)).

   If one or more resources has been created on the origin server as a
   result of successfully processing a POST request, the origin server
   SHOULD send a 201 (Created) response containing a Location header
   field that provides an identifier for the primary resource created
   (Section 10.2.2) and a representation that describes the status of
   the request while referring to the new resource(s).

   Responses to POST requests are only cacheable when they include
   explicit freshness information (see Section 4.2.1 of [CACHING]) and a
   Content-Location header field that has the same value as the POST's
   target URI (Section 8.7).  A cached POST response can be reused to
   satisfy a later GET or HEAD request.  In contrast, a POST request
   cannot be satisfied by a cached POST response because POST is
   potentially unsafe; see Section 4 of [CACHING].

   If the result of processing a POST would be equivalent to a
   representation of an existing resource, an origin server MAY redirect
   the user agent to that resource by sending a 303 (See Other) response
   with the existing resource's identifier in the Location field.  This
   has the benefits of providing the user agent a resource identifier
   and transferring the representation via a method more amenable to
   shared caching, though at the cost of an extra request if the user
   agent does not already have the representation cached.

